<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l31xce00_recognize" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>How to recognize an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/></title>
	<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>How to recognize an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>
instance</navtitle>
<searchtitle>How to recognize an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>
instance</searchtitle>
</titlealts><abstract>   <shortdesc>You can use the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command to display a table that shows
			all available tokens. You can check the slot and token information, and the PIN status
			at any time.</shortdesc>  </abstract>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>status information</indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"></keyword><indexterm>status
      information</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pkcsconf -t</indexterm>
				<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"
						/><indexterm>status information</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<section>    <p>The following information provided by the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command about the
					<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> is returned
				in the <term>Token Info</term> section, where, for example, <codeph>Token #1
					Info</codeph> displays information about the token plugged into slot number
				1.<screen>
$ pkcsconf -t

Token #1 Info:
       Label: ep11                          
	Manufacturer: IBM Corp.                       
	Model: IBM EP11Tok     
	Serial Number: 123             
	Flags: 0x880<b>4</b>45 
          (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|<b>TOKEN_INITIALIZED</b>|USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED
           |SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)
	Sessions: 0/-2
	R/W Sessions: -1/-2
	PIN Length: 4-8
	Public Memory: 0xFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFF
	Private Memory: 0xFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFF
	Hardware Version: 1.0
	Firmware Version: 1.0
	Time: 15:29:43
</screen><?Pub Caret 294?></p>    <p>The most important information
is as follows:<ul>
<li>The token <parmname>Label</parmname> you assigned at the initialization phase
							(<codeph>ep11</codeph>, in the example). You can initialize or change a
						token label by using the <codeph>pkcsconf -I</codeph> command.</li>
<li>The <parmname>Model</parmname> name is unique and designates the token that is in use. </li>
<li rev="i2">The <parmname>Flags</parmname> provide information about the token initialization
						status, the PIN status, and features such as <b><i>Random Number
								Generator</i></b> (RNG). They also provide information about
						requirements, such as <b><i>Login required</i></b>, which means that there
						is at least one mechanism that requires a session log-in to use that
						cryptographic function. For example, the mask for TOKEN_INITIALIZED is
						0x00000400 and it is true, if the token has been initialized. <p rev="i4"
							>The flag USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED indicates that the user PIN must be
							changed before the token can be used. The flag SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED
							indicates that the SO PIN must be changed before the token can be
							used.</p><p rev="i4">For more information about the flags provided in
							this output, see the description of the TOKEN_INFO structure and the
							Token Information Flags in the <xref
								conref="lxce_conref.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>.</p></li>
<li>The <parmname>PIN length</parmname> range declared for this token.</li>
</ul></p>   </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003131?>
