<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Adding <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/> to <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></title>
  <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
 <titlealts>
  <navtitle>Adding <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/> to <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></navtitle>
  <?Pub Caret -1?>
  <searchtitle>Adding <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/> to <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></searchtitle>
 </titlealts>
 <shortdesc>You need to introduce one or multiple tokens of type <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> (<keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/>) into the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> library. For this purpose, you must define a
slot entry for each desired token in the global <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file <ph rev="iv3">called
<filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath></ph>.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"
/><indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm id="configuring">configuring <indexterm><keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/></indexterm><indexterm>multiple <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>multiple <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"
/><indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>configuration file<indexterm>ep11tok01.conf</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"
/><indexterm>ep11tok01.conf</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>ep11tok01.conf configuration file</indexterm>
        <indexterm>environment variables</indexterm>
        <indexterm>APQN_WHITELIST</indexterm>
        <indexterm>key word APQN_WHITELIST</indexterm>
        <indexterm>APQN_ANY</indexterm>
        <indexterm>key word APQN_ANY</indexterm>
        <indexterm>adapter/domain pair<indexterm>APQN</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>APQN<indexterm>adapter/domain pair</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>adapter<indexterm>assigning domains</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>tokname</indexterm>
<indexterm>confname</indexterm>
<indexterm><filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
<p rev="iv3">If you want to configure multiple <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/>, you can assign dedicated adapters and
domains to different tokens respectively. This ensures data isolation between multiple
applications.</p>
<p>If you use multiple <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/>, you must
specify a unique token directory <ph rev="iv3">in the slot entry for each token, using the
<codeph>tokname</codeph> attribute. This token directory receives the token-individual information
(like for example, key objects, user PIN, SO PIN, or hashes). Thus, the information for a certain
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> is separated from other <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/>.</ph>
</p>
<p>The default <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> directory is
<filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11tok/</filepath>. <ph rev="iv3">You can use the default only for
a single <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>. Resulting examples for
multiple <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> directories can be: </ph>
<codeblock>
/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11token1/
/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11token2/
</codeblock></p>
<note rev="iv3">A certain token configuration applies to all applications that use this <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>.</note>
<section><title>Adding a slot entry for each applicable <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> in <filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath>
</title><indexterm>slot entry,
defining</indexterm><indexterm><filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath></indexterm><p>As already
mentioned, the default <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration
file <codeph>opencryptoki.conf</codeph> provides a slot entry for the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>. It is preconfigured to slot #4. <ph rev="iv3"
>Each slot entry must set the <codeph>stdll</codeph> attribute to
<codeph>libpkcs11_ep11.so</codeph>.</ph> Check this default entry to find out whether you can use it
as is.</p><p>For each configured <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>, you
must create a specific <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>. This
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>-specific configuration file defines the
target adapters and target adapter domains to which the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> sends its cryptographic requests.</p><p>In
turn, each slot entry in the global <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
configuration file must specify this <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>. For this purpose, use the
<codeph>confname</codeph> attribute with the unique name of the respective <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/> as value. </p>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/></indexterm>
<p>The example from <xref href="#l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok/lxce_global_ock_configfile"
format="dita"/> configures two <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/> in
slots 4 and 5. It defines the names of the specific token configuration files to be
<codeph>ep11tok01.conf</codeph> and <codeph>ep11tok02.conf</codeph>. Per default, these files are
searched in the directory where <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
searches its global configuration file.   <xref
href="lxce_ep11_conffile.dita#lxce_ep11_conffile/lxce_ep11tok_config"/> shows an example of an
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>.</p><?Pub Caret 109?><fig
id="lxce_global_ock_configfile" rev="i1v2" expanse="column">
<title>Multiple <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> instances</title>
<screen>
slot 4
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok01.conf
tokname = ep11token01 
description = "Ep11 Token"
manufacturer = "IBM"
hwversion = "4.11"
firmwareversion = "2.0"
}

slot 5
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok02.conf
tokname = ep11token02 
}

</screen>
</fig>
</section>
<section rev="iv3">
<title>Setting an option for a FIPS compliant token data format</title>
<p>Starting with <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.12, you can
optionally use only FIPS compliant operations for <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>'s login password hashing and for encrypting the
stored token data. This is valid for <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"
/>, <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/libica"/> tokens, CCA tokens and Soft Tokens.
Being FIPS compliant, for a new token directory, the token data is stored in a format that is better
protected against attacks than the previously used data format.</p>
<p>If you want to use the token data format that was generated with FIPS compliant operations, you
must explicitly specify the <codeph>tokversion</codeph> option for the token's slot entry in the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file. You must do this
before token initialization with the <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname> command, for example: <fig
expanse="column" id="tokversion">
<title>Slot entry for an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> with FIPS
compliant data format in the opencryptoki.conf file</title>
<screen>
slot 4
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok01.conf
tokname = ep11token01 
<b>tokversion = 3.12</b>
description = "Ep11 Token"
manufacturer = "IBM"
hwversion = "4.11"
firmwareversion = "2.0"
}</screen>
</fig></p>
<p>You can use the <cmdname>pkcstok_migrate</cmdname> utility to transform an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>, a CCA token, an ICA token, or a Soft Token
created with any version of <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> into a data
format that was generated by FIPS compliant operations. </p>
 <p>The <cmdname>pkcstok_migrate</cmdname> tool converts all token data produced with <ph rev="iv3"
>any <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></ph> version, including PINs, to
be encrypted with a FIPS compliant method. Without this tool, switching to the new token format is
only possible with an empty repository. The new FIPS compliant format can be used by specifying the
<codeph>tokversion</codeph> keyword in the token’s slot configuration in
<filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath> as shown in <xref
href="#l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok/tokversion" format="dita"/>. For a value of
<codeph>3.12</codeph> or greater, the new format is used. Values lower than <codeph>3.12</codeph>
are invalid. <ph rev="iv3">To ensure compatibility with key objects generated using older versions
of <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>,</ph> the old format is still the
default. The new format is only used when the user explicitly adds the <codeph>tokversion</codeph>
keyword to the <filepath>opencryptoki.conf </filepath> file.</p><p>For information on how to use this tool, see <xref href="lxce_pkcstok_migrate.dita"/>.</p>
</section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000000808?>
