<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN" "ibm-topic.dtd">
<topic id="new_for_30" xml:lang="en-us" rev="i1v2">
<title>Updates for the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.10
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> type</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>summary of changes<indexterm>updates for the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.10 <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>The following enhancements are implemented for the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11feat_short"/> for  <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.10: </p>
<ul>
<li>All mechanisms provided by the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>
type that are defined in <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> v2.40 are now
supported. See <xref href="lxce_mechanisms.dita#l31xce00_mechanisms/ep11_table_mechanisms"/> for a
complete list of supported mechanisms for the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>. <p>However, the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> still supports the CKM_ECDH1_DERIVE mechanism
according to <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> v2.20 (without key
derivation function (KDF) and shared data).</p></li>
<li>You can activate one or two session modes to limit the access to cryptographic objects in order
to improve security. The available session modes are the <term>strict session mode</term> or the
<term>virtual HSM (VHSM) mode</term>. <p>In <term>strict session mode</term>, for each new session,
a unique <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> session ID is generated. This
prevents that a session key (if copied from a session) will be handled as a valid key by the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> crypto adapter even after the PKCS#11
session that generated the key has ended. </p><p>In <term>virtual HSM (VHSM) mode</term>, you can
restrict keys to only that token that was used to generate it. </p><p>You can configure an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> to use either one of the available modes, or
both. </p></li>
<li>You can now set an option that makes CK_TRUE the default value for the CKA_SENSITIVE attribute
when generating, unwrapping, or building secret keys with <apiname>C_CreateObject</apiname>. This
eliminates a restriction with using <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
library functions from earlier versions.</li>
<li>The list of mechanisms returned by the <apiname>C_GetMechanismList</apiname> function is now
filtered according to the (domain) control points configured in the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cryptocoproc"/>. </li>
<li>You can now import keys of type CKK_DH, CKK_DSA, and CKK_EC. See  <xref
href="lxce_importing_keys.dita#l31xce00_importing_keys"/> for more information.</li>
<li>The error handling when using <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> library
functions is enhanced: <ul>
<li>User-friendly messages are issued into the SYSLOG during token initialization, when no
CK_SESSION_INFO structure is available for providing meaningful reason codes.</li>
<li>The use of return codes is adapted to better comply to the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> standard. </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> now supports multiple token
instances of the same token type. This edition documents what to do to exploit this support for
multiple tokens of type <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>.</li>
<li>Starting with <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> library version 2.0, as
the default, the TKE uses the <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon to authenticate with a <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> user who is member of a new <term>ep11tke
group</term>, which is created during <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
package installation.</li>
<li>New tools are described in <xref href="lxce_tools.dita#lxce_tools"/>: <ul>
<li><cmdname>ep11info</cmdname> provides information about <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11coprocs"/> and about configured domains.</li>
<li>
<cmdname>pkcsep11_session</cmdname> allows to delete an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11session"/> from <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11coprocs"/> left over by programs that did not terminate
normally.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000001545?>
