<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<reference id="l31xce00_restrictions" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Restrictions with using the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/>
functions</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Restrictions using the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"
/></navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11feat"/>: Restrictions with using
the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> functions</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
 <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
 <shortdesc>In this topic, you find information about certain limitations of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/>.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>secure key concept</indexterm>
    <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"
/><indexterm>restrictions</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>restrictions of <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/>
</indexterm>
    <indexterm>HSM</indexterm>
    <indexterm>hardware security module (HSM)</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
<!--compare the content of this topic with the README:  https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki/blob/master/doc/README.ep11_stdll-->
  <section>
   <ul>
    <li>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> implements the <term>secure
key concept</term> (that is, a key is wrapped (encrypted) by a master key, which is kept within the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> adapter). That means, that <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> key values are never accessible. The secure key
concept ensures that clear keys never leave the hardware security module (HSM), which is the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> module part that is installed on the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cryptocoproc"/>. <p rev="i1v2"> Therefore, the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> only knows sensitive secret keys
(CKO_SECRET_KEY). However, the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> standard
defines the default value of attribute <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> to be
<codeph>CK_FALSE</codeph>. Thus, for previous versions of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>, all applications must have the attribute
value of <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> explicitly changed to <codeph>CK_TRUE</codeph> whenever an
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> secret key had been generated, unwrapped,
or build with <apiname>C_CreateObject</apiname>. </p><p>Starting with the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> for <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.10, an option is implemented to change
the default value of attribute CKA_SENSITIVE to be CK_TRUE for all secret keys created with the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>. This applies to functions
<apiname>C_GenerateKey</apiname>, <apiname>C_GenerateKeyPair</apiname>,
<apiname>C_UnwrapKey</apiname>, and <apiname>C_DeriveKey</apiname> when creating key with
<codeph>CKA_CLASS = CKO_SECRET_KEY</codeph>, if the attribute <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> is not
explicitly specified in the template. </p><p rev="i1v2">To enable this option, you must specify
keyword <codeph>FORCE_SENSITIVE</codeph> in the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> configuration file, as shown in <xref
href="#l31xce00_restrictions/lxce_ep11tok_config2" format="dita"/>. Note that the semantics
specified with the <codeph>FORCE_SENSITIVE</codeph> keyword matches the semantics used by <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zos"/> for <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>.</p><fig id="lxce_ep11tok_config2" expanse="column">
<title>Sample of an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> configuration
file</title>
<codeblock>#
# EP11 token configuration
#
<ph rev="i1v2">FORCE_SENSITIVE</ph>
#
APQN_WHITELIST
5 2
6 2
END
</codeblock>
</fig></li>
    <li>Keys leaving the hardware security module (HSM) are encrypted by the HSM master key
(wrapping key) and come as binary large object (BLOB). In <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>, objects can have special attributes that
describe the key properties. Besides dedicated attributes defined by the application, there are some
attributes defined as token-specific by <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"
/>. <p>
<xref href="#l31xce00_restrictions/ep11_table1_key_attributes" format="dita"/> and <xref
href="#l31xce00_restrictions/ep11_table2_key_attributes" format="dita"/> show the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> token-specific attributes and their default values
for private and secure keys.</p><table frame="all" id="ep11_table1_key_attributes">
<title>Private key <ph rev="i1v2">(CKO_PRIVATE_KEY)</ph> default attributes of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/></title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Private key attributes</entry>
<entry>value</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>CKA_SENSITIVE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><table frame="all" id="ep11_table2_key_attributes">
<title>Secret key <ph rev="i1v2">(CKO_SECRET_KEY)</ph> default attributes of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/></title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Secret key attributes</entry>
<entry>value</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></li>
    <li>When you create keys the default values of the attributes CKA_ENCRYPT, CKA DECRYPT,
CKA_VERIFY, CKA_SIGN, CKA_WRAP and CKA_UNWRAP are CK_TRUE. Note, no EP11 mechanism supports the
Sign/Recover or Verify/Recover functions.<p>Even if settings of <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph>,
<codeph>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</codeph>, or <codeph>CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE</codeph> would allow accessing
the key value, then <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> returns
<codeph>00..00</codeph> as key value (due to the secure key concept). </p>
<p>For information about the key attributes, see the <xref
conref="lxce_conref.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>.</p></li>
    <li rev="i2">All RSA keys must have a public exponent (CKA_PUBLIC_EXPONENT) greater than or
     equal to 17.</li>
    <li>The Crypto Express <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> coprocessor
restricts RSA keys (primes and moduli) according to ANSI X9.31. Therefore, in the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>, the lengths of the RSA primes (p or q) must
be a multiple of 128 bits. Also, the length of the modulus (<codeph>CKA_MODULUS_BITS</codeph>) must
be a multiple of 256.</li>
    <li>The mechanisms <codeph>CKM_DES3_CBC</codeph> and <codeph>CKM_AES_CBC</codeph> can only wrap
     keys, which have a length that is a multiple of the block size of DES3 or AES respectively. See
     the mechanism list and mechanism information (<cmdname>pkcsconf -m</cmdname>) for supported
     mechanisms together with supported functions and key sizes. </li>
    <li>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> coprocessor adapter can be
configured to restrict the cryptographic capabilities in order for the adapter to comply with
specific security requirements and regulations. Such restrictions on the adapter impact the
capability of the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> (see also <xref
href="lxce_filter_mechanisms.dita#l31xce00_filter_mechanisms"/>).</li>
    <li>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> function
<apiname>C_DigestKey()</apiname> is not supported by the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/>. </li>
   </ul>
   <?Pub Caret -1?>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000001279?>
