<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN" "ibm-topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="l31xce00_glossary">
<title>Glossary</title>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>glossary</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)</dt>
<dd>A data encryption technique that improved upon and officially replaced the Data Encryption
Standard (DES). AES is sometimes referred to as Rijndael, which is the algorithm on which the
standard is based.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>asymmetric cryptography</dt>
<dd>Synonym for public key cryptography..</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Central Processor Assist for Cryptographic Function
(CPACF)</dt>
<dd>Hardware that provides support for symmetric ciphers
and secure hash algorithms (SHA) on every central processor. Hence
the potential encryption/decryption throughput scales with the number
of central processors in the system. </dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Chinese-Remainder Theorem (CRT)</dt>
<dd>A mathematical
problem described by Sun Tsu Suan-Ching using the remainder from a
division operation.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)</dt>
<dd>A method of reducing repetitive patterns in cipher-text by performing an exclusive-OR operation
on each 8-byte block of data with the previously encrypted 8-byte block before it is encrypted. </dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Cipher block length</dt>
<dd>The length of a block
that can be encrypted or decrypted by a symmetric cipher. Each symmetric
cipher has a specific cipher block length. </dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>clear key</dt>
<dd>Any type of encryption key not protected by encryption under another key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>CPACF instructions</dt>
<dd>Instruction set for
the CPACF hardware.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry rev="i1v2">
<dt>Crypto Express card, Crypto Express adapter (CEX*S)</dt>
<dd>Beginning with CEX4S, the PCIe adapter on a CEX*S feature can be configured in three ways:
Either as cryptographic accelerator (CEX*A), or as CCA coprocessor (CEX*C) for secure key encrypted
transactions, or in <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> coprocessor mode
(<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/>) for exploiting <keyword
id="pkcs11long">Enterprise PKCS #11</keyword> functionality. <p>A <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter only supports secure key mode. </p>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="i1v2">
<dt>ECC</dt>
<dd>See <cite>Elliptic curve cryptography</cite>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>electronic code book mode (ECB mode)</dt>
<dd>A method of enciphering and deciphering data in address spaces or data spaces. Each 64-bit block
of plain-text is separately enciphered and each block of the cipher-text is separately deciphered. </dd></dlentry>
<dlentry rev="i1v2">
<dt>Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC)</dt>
<dd>A public-key process discovered independently in 1985 by Victor Miller (<keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/>) and Neal Koblitz (University of Washington). ECC is
based on discrete logarithms. Due to the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields,
ECC provides a similar amount of security to that of RSA algorithms, but with relatively shorter key
sizes.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/libica"/></dt>
<dd>Library for <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/> Cryptographic
Architecture.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>master key (MK)</dt>
<dd>In computer security, the top-level key in a hierarchy of key-encrypting keys.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Mode of operation</dt>
<dd>A schema describing how
to apply a symmetric cipher to encrypt or decrypt a message that is
longer than the cipher block length. The goal of most modes of operation
is to keep the security level of the cipher by avoiding the situation
where blocks that occur more than once will always be translated to
the same value. Some modes of operations allow handling messages of
arbitrary lengths.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>modulus-exponent (Mod-Expo)</dt>
<dd>A type of exponentiation
performed using a modulus.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>public key cryptography</dt>
<dd>In computer security, cryptography in which a public key is used for encryption and a private
key is used for decryption. Synonymous with asymmetric cryptography.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA)</dt>
<dd>An algorithm
used in public key cryptography. These are the surnames of the three
researchers responsible for creating this asymmetric or public/private
key algorithm.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA)</dt>
<dd>An encryption
method in which data is encrypted in a way that is mathematically
impossible to reverse. Different data can possibly produce the same
hash value, but there is no way to use the hash value to determine
the original data.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>secure key</dt>
<dd>A key that is encrypted under a master key. When using a secure key, it is passed to a
cryptographic coprocessor where the coprocessor decrypts the key and performs the function. The
secure key never appears in the clear outside of the cryptographic coprocessor.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>symmetric cryptogrphy</dt>
<dd>An encryption method that
uses the same key for encryption and decryption. Keys of symmetric
ciphers are private keys.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>zcrypt device driver</dt>
<dd>Kernel device driver to access Crypto Express adapters. Formerly, a monolithic module called
<cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname>. Today, it consists of multiple modules that are implicitly loaded when
loading the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> main module of the device driver.</dd></dlentry>
</dl>
</body></topic>
