<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<reference id="l31xce00_settingup_token_daemon" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Adjusting the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration
file</title>
 <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
 <titlealts>
  <navtitle>Adjusting the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration
file</navtitle>
  <searchtitle>Adjusting the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
configuration file</searchtitle>
 </titlealts>
 <shortdesc>A preconfigured list of all available tokens that are ready to register to the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> slot daemon is required before the slot daemon
can start. This list is provided by the global configuration file called <filepath rev="iv3"
>opencryptoki.conf</filepath>. Read this topic for information on how to adapt this file according
to your installation.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>base
library</indexterm><indexterm>token library</indexterm><indexterm>configuration
file</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>pkcs11_startup</indexterm>
    <indexterm>pk_config_data</indexterm>
    <indexterm>pkcsconf -t command</indexterm>
    <indexterm>slot manager<indexterm>starting</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>starting the slot manager</indexterm>
    <indexterm>opencryptoki.conf<indexterm>configuration file</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>slot manager</indexterm>
    <indexterm>slot entry</indexterm>
    <indexterm>pkcsconf command</indexterm>
    <indexterm>command pkcsconf </indexterm>
    <indexterm>configuration file<indexterm>sample for opencryptoki.conf</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>available libraries in <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"
/></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
  <section>
<p>
<xref href="#l31xce00_settingup_token_daemon/tab_openclibs" format="dita"/> lists the maximum number
of available libraries that may be in place after you successfully installed <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>. It may vary for different distributions and is
dependent from the installed packages. </p>
<p>Also, <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linuxonz"/> does not support the Trusted
Platform Module (TPM) token library.</p>
<p>A token is only available, if the token library is installed, and the appropriate software and
hardware support pertaining to the stack of the token is also installed. For example, the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> is only available if all parts of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> software are installed and a <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/> is detected. </p>
<p> A token needs not be available, even if the corresponding token library is installed. Display
the list of available tokens by using the command: <screen>$ pkcsconf -t</screen></p>
<table id="tab_openclibs"><title><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
libraries</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">The table lists the libraries in the first column and holds an explanation
in the second column.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="56*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="41*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Library</entry>
<entry>Explanation</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/libopencryptoki.so </filepath></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> base library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_ica.so</filepath></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/libica"/> token library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_sw.so</filepath></entry>
<entry>software token library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_tpm.so</filepath></entry>
<entry>TPM token library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_cca.so</filepath></entry>
<entry>CCA token library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_ep11.so</filepath></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> library</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/libpkcs11_icsf.so</filepath></entry>
<entry>ICSF token library</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<?Pub Caret 0?>
<p>The <filepath>/etc/opencryptoki/opencryptoki.conf</filepath> file must exist and it must contain
an entry for each instance of an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> to
make these instances available. By default, one such entry is available upon installation (see the
<codeph>slot 4</codeph> entry in the provided sample configuration from <xref
href="#l31xce00_settingup_token_daemon/lxce_ock_config_sample" format="dita"/>). </p>
<!--FYI: Check the current config file on this URL: <xref href="https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki/blob/master/usr/sbin/pkcsslotd/opencryptoki.conf" format="conf" scope="external"/>-->
<fig id="lxce_ock_config_sample">
<title>Default opencryptoki.conf</title>
<screen>
<ph rev="iv3">version opencryptoki-3.15</ph>

# The following defaults are defined:
#       hwversion = "0.0"
#       firmwareversion = "0.0"
#       description = Linux
#       manufacturer = IBM
#
# The slot definitions below may be overriden and/or customized.
# For example:
#       slot 0
#       {
#          stdll = libpkcs11_cca.so
#          description = "OCK CCA Token"
#          manufacturer = "MyCompany Inc."
#          hwversion = "2.32"
#          firmwareversion = "1.0"
#       }
# See man(5) opencryptoki.conf for further information.
#
slot 0
{
stdll = libpkcs11_tpm.so
}

slot 1
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ica.so
}

slot 2
{
stdll = libpkcs11_cca.so
}

slot 3
{
stdll = libpkcs11_sw.so
}

slot 4
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok.conf
}
</screen>
</fig>
<note>
<ul>
<li>The standard path for slot token dynamic link libraries (STDLLs) is:
<filepath>/usr/lib64/opencryptoki/stdll/</filepath>.</li>
<li>The standard path for the token-specific <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokconfig"/> (in our example,
<filepath>ep11tok.conf</filepath>) is <filepath>/etc/opencryptoki/</filepath>. You can change this
path by using the <codeph>OCK_EP11_TOKEN_DIR</codeph> environment variable. For more information,
read <xref href="lxce_ep11_conffile.dita"/>.</li>
<li rev="iv3">You can use the default <filepath rev="iv3">opencryptoki.conf</filepath> file only for
a single <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>. If you want to use multiple
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11tokens"/>, read the information in <xref
href="lxce_configuring_ep11tok.dita"/>.</li>
</ul>
</note>
<p>Use one of the following commands to start the slot daemon, which reads out the configuration
information and sets up the
tokens:<screen>
$ service pkcsslotd start 
$ systemctl start pkcsslotd.service   /* for Linux distributions providing systemd */     
</screen></p>
<p>For a permanent solution, specify:<screen>$ chkconfig pkcsslotd on</screen></p>
</section>
 </refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003408?>
