<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l31xce00_whatis_ep11_cex4p" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>What is a <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/> ?</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>What is a <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/>?</navtitle>
<searchtitle>What is a <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"
/>?</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>An <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/> Crypto Express adapter, which
is configured with the Enterprise <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/>
(<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>) firmware, is called a <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/> (shortly referred to as <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/>). The Crypto Express4 adapter is the first
adapter that can be configured as an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
coprocessor (<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex4p"/>). <ph rev="i1v2">You can
also use CEX5Ps or CEX6Ps on the appropriate <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ph_ibmz"/> systems.</ph></shortdesc><?Pub
Caret 98?>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex4p"/> adapter</indexterm>
<indexterm>Crypto Express (CEX*S) adapter</indexterm><indexterm>Enterprise <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> (<keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> firmware</indexterm><indexterm>firmware <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"
/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>HSM</indexterm><indexterm>hardware security module (HSM)</indexterm>
<indexterm>secure key</indexterm><indexterm>clear key</indexterm>
<indexterm>master key</indexterm>
<indexterm>wrapping key</indexterm>
<indexterm>encrypt</indexterm><indexterm>decrypt</indexterm><indexterm>unwrap</indexterm>
<indexterm>wrap</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapters provide
hardware-accelerated support for crypto operations that are based on the <xref
conref="lxce_conref.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>. Access from applications to the functions of
a <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter is enabled through the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11stack"/>. This <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11stack"/> consists of certain <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> user space libraries and an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> extension in the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> AP device driver. Using several layers of
interfaces, the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/pkcs11"/> standard requests are
propagated to and returned from the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/>
adapter by the device driver.</p>
<p>A <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter is a <term>hardware
security module (HSM)</term> that maintains and protects secrets (for example, master keys) such
that these secrets cannot be revealed from outside the adapter: No operating system service or
application can retrieve these secrets and any trial to physically break into the card destroys its
data due to its tamper proof design.</p>
<p>A <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter supports cryptographic
operations with secure keys. A <term>secure key</term> is a key that is encrypted (wrapped) by a
master key that is stored in the adapter. <ph rev="i1v2">So sometimes, a master key is also referred
to with the more general term <term>wrapping key</term>, as for example in document <xref
href="https://www-03.ibm.com/security/cryptocards/pciecc2/pdf/ep11-structure.pdf" format="pdf"
scope="external">Enterprise PKCS#11 (EP11) Library structure</xref>. </ph></p>
<p>Therefore, on the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter,
applications can decrypt (unwrap) a secure key and use it for cryptographic operations inside the
adapter. Outside the adapter (for example, inside an operating system), a secure key is only
available as a binary large object (blob) wrapped by the master key, and cannot be used for
cryptographic operations. To use a secure key, an application must call functions on the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter. It is therefore safe to keep a secure
key in memory or to store it in a file system.</p>
<p>Cryptographic keys that are not encrypted are called <term>clear keys</term>. If a clear key is
stored in memory or in a file, unauthorized access to that memory or file must carefully be
prevented. Otherwise, the key can be stolen and used to decrypt protected information. The <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapters do not support clear key
cryptography.</p>
<p><ph rev="i1v2">The maximum number of supported domains depends on the mainframe model and is the
same for all <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplongs"/> in that mainframe.
For example, an <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmz14"/> (<ph
conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_z14"/>) supports up to 85 domains (with hexadecimal domain IDs 0000
to 0054).</ph> Each domain acts like an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
coprocessor, but maintains its own master key. That means, that the master key of one domain cannot
be accessed by another domain. Different domains of a crypto adapter may be assigned to different
LPARs or <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zvm"/> guests, such that multiple LPARs
or guests can share one <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallplong"/> without
sharing their master keys. </p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000004908?>
