<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN"
 "ibm-task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="l31xce00_installing_zcrypt" xml:lang="en-us" rev="i1v2">
<title>Installing and loading the cryptographic device driver</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Installing and loading the cryptographic device driver</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>: Installing and loading the
cryptographic device driver</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You need an installed Linux kernel that includes the cryptographic device driver. This
cryptographic device driver is normally included in the regular kernel package shipped with your
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> distribution. Loading the  cryptographic
device driver is only required for earlier installations as described in this topic. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>Linux <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zcrypt"/> device
driver<indexterm>loading</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zcrypt"/> device
driver<indexterm>loading</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>device driver<indexterm>loading</indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/apmodule"/> main module</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zcrypt"/></indexterm>
<indexterm>z90crypt<indexterm>alias name</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>alias name for z90crypt</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/apmodule"/> module</indexterm>
<indexterm>loading Linux <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zcrypt"/> device
driver</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>In earlier <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> distributions, the
cryptographic device driver is shipped as a single module called <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname>. In
more recent distributions, the cryptographic device driver is shipped as set of modules with the
<cmdname>ap</cmdname> module being the main module that triggers loading all required sub-modules.
There is, however, an alias name <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> that links to the <cmdname>ap</cmdname>
main module.</p>
<p>There are distributions using kernel levels starting with 4.10, that have basic cryptographic
device driver support as part of the kernel (that is, the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module is already
compiled in the kernel). In this case, loading the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> main module with the
<cmdname>modprobe</cmdname> command is no longer needed. In addition, the
<parmname>domain</parmname> and <parmname>poll_thread</parmname> parameters are no longer module
parameters, but kernel parameters. In this case, you can change the values directly via sysfs, or
change as kernel parameters. Refer to the <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and Commands</cite> for
kernel 4.12 or later on the <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/linux390/development_docu_rollback.html"
format="html" scope="external">developerWorks</xref> website for further information.</p>
</context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>For installations with a loadable cryptographic device driver, use the <cmdname>lsmod</cmdname>
command to find out if either the <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module is
already loaded.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>If required, use the <cmdname>modprobe</cmdname> command to load the
<cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module. When loading the
<cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module, you can use the following optional
module parameters:</cmd>
<info>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt><codeph>domain=</codeph></pt>
<pd>Use an integer that identifies the default cryptographic domain for the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> instance. You define cryptographic domains in the
LPAR activation profile on the HMC or SE. The default value (<parmname>domain=autoselect</parmname>)
causes the device driver to choose one of the available domains automatically. <note type="other"
othertype="Important">Be sure to enter an existing domain. The Trusted Key Entry workstation does
not find the cryptographic adapters if a non-existing domain is entered here.</note><p>After loading
the device driver, use the <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname> command with the <codeph>-b</codeph> option
to confirm that the correct domain is used. If your distribution does not include this command, see
the version of <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and Commands</cite> that applies to your distribution
about how to use the sysfs interface to find out the domain.</p><p>If the cryptographic device
driver is part of the kernel, you cannot unload it. In this case, you can directly edit domain
settings via sysfs.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt><codeph>poll_thread=</codeph></pt>
<pd>enables the polling thread for instances of <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> on <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zvm"/> and for <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> instances that run in LPAR mode on an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/> mainframe earlier than <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/z10"/>. <p>For <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> instances that run in LPAR mode on a <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/z10"/> or later mainframe, this setting is ignored and AP
interrupts are used instead.</p></pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<p>For more information about these module parameters, the polling thread, and AP interrupts, see
the version of <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and Commands</cite> that applies to your
distribution.</p>
</info>
</step>
</steps>
<result>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zcrypt"/> device driver that contains
the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> extension is loaded and
<cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname> displays the cryptographic adapters available to the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> system. </result>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000003073?>
