<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="l31xce00_installing_ocryptoki" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Installing <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
    </title>
    <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 14, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Installing <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></navtitle>
<searchtitle>Installing <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/> is part of the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> package starting with version 3.1.
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> in turn is shipped with the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linuxonz"/> distributions.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>installing <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"></keyword></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>installing
<indexterm>from RPM</indexterm><indexterm>from DEB</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>installing from
source package</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>source package</indexterm>
<indexterm>RPM</indexterm>
<indexterm>DEB</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<section>       <p>Check whether you already installed <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> in your current environment, for
example:<screen rev="i1v2">
$ rpm -qa | grep -i opencryptoki /* for RPM */ 
$ dpkg -l | grep -i opencryptoki /* for DEB */</screen><note>The
command examples are distribution dependent. <codeph>opencryptoki</codeph> must in certain
distributions be specified as <codeph>openCryptoki</codeph> (case-sensitive). </note></p> 
     <p>You should see all installed <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
packages. If required packages are missing, use the installation tool of your Linux distribution to
install the appropriate <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> RPM <ph
rev="i1v2">or DEB</ph>.</p>
            <note>You must remove any previous package of <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>, before you can install the new package version
<ph rev="i1v2">3.10</ph>.</note> 
   </section>
<section>
            <title>Installing from the RPM <ph rev="i1v2">or DEB</ph> package</title>
            <p>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version <ph
rev="i1v2">3.10</ph> or higher packages, that comprise the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> support (<keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11token"/>) are delivered by the distributors.
Distributors build these packages as RPM <ph rev="i1v2">or DEB</ph> packages for delivering them to
customers.</p>
            <p>Customers can install these <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> packages by using the installation tool of their
selected distribution.</p>
            <p>If you received <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> as an
<term>RPM</term> package, follow the <term>RPM</term> installation process that is described in the
<term>RPM</term> man page. <ph rev="i1v2">If you received an <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/>
<term>DEB</term> package, you can use the dpkg - package manager for Debian described in the
<term>dpkg</term> man page.</ph></p>
<p rev="i1v2">The installation from either an <term>RPM</term> or <term>DEB</term> package is the
preferred installation method. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Installing from the source package</title>
            <p>As an alternative, for example for development purposes, you can get the latest
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> version (inclusive latest patches) from
the <xref href="https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki" format="html" scope="external"
rev="i1v2">GitHub repository</xref>  and build it yourself. But this version is not serviced. It is
suitable for non-production systems and early feature testing, but you should not use it for
production.</p>
            <p>In this case, refer to the <codeph>INSTALL</codeph> file in the top level of the
source tree. You can start from the instructions that are provided with the subtopics of this
<codeph>INSTALL</codeph> file and select from the described alternatives. If you use this
installation method parallel to the installation of a package from your distributor, then you should
keep both installations isolated from each other.</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Download the latest version of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> sources from:
<codeblock rev="i1v2"><xref href="https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki/releases/tag/v3.10.0" format="html" scope="external"/></codeblock></li>
                <li rev="i1v2">Decompress and extract the compressed tape archive (tar.gz - file).
There is a new directory named like <filepath>opencryptoki-3.10.x</filepath>. </li>
                <?Pub Caret 67?>
                <li>Change to that directory and issue the following scripts and commands:<p>
<screen>
$ ./bootstrap
$ ./configure
$ make
$ make install</screen>
</p><p>The scripts or commands perform the following functions:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>bootstrap</dt>
<dd>Initial setup, basic configurations</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>configure</dt>
<dd>Check configurations and build the makefile</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>make</dt>
<dd>Compile and link</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>make install</dt>
<dd>Install the libraries</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></li>
            </ol>
            <note>When installing <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ocrypto"/> from
the source package, the location of some installed files will differ from the location of files
installed from an RPM <ph rev="i1v2">or DEB</ph> package.</note>
        </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000005621?>
