<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="l31xce00_domains" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Purpose of domains</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Purpose of domains</navtitle>
<searchtitle>Purpose of domains</searchtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>When you configure your system on the Support Element (SE), you can specify how a logical
partition (LPAR) uses coprocessors and accelerators. In this context, the Crypto Express cards
support a concept of cryptographic domains. Each domain is protected by a master key, thus
preventing access across domains and effectively separating the contained keys. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>domains</indexterm><indexterm>usage domains</indexterm>
<indexterm>control domains</indexterm><indexterm>cryptographic domains</indexterm>
<indexterm>control domain exposure</indexterm><indexterm>logical partition
(LPAR)</indexterm><indexterm>LPAR</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>For information on how to configure domains, refer to <cite>zEnterprise System Support Element
Operations Guide</cite>, which you can download from the <xref format="pdf"
href="https://www.ibm.com/servers/resourcelink/svc03100.nsf/pages/zResourceLinkUrl?OpenDocument&amp;url=http://www.ibm.com/servers/resourcelink/lib03010.nsf/0/00373B9974F6CDB8852577610069E8BF/$File/SC28-6896-02.pdf"
scope="external">IBM Resource Link</xref>.</p>
<p>There are two types of access to a cryptographic domain:</p>
<ul>
<li>for usage of cryptographic functions </li>
<li>for management (control) of the domain, which includes the management of the master keys </li>
</ul>
<p>A domain, which is assigned to an LPAR for usage access is called a usage domain of that LPAR. A
domain, which is assigned to an LPAR for management (control) access is called a control domain of
that LPAR. Every domain, which is a usage domain of an LPAR must also be a control domain of that
LPAR, but not the other way round.</p>
<section id="l31xce00_usagedom">       <title>Usage domains</title>
     <p>A logical partition's <term>usage domains</term> are domains in the coprocessors that can be
used for cryptographic functions.</p>
<p>In <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/>, you can use the <cmdname>lszcrypt
-b</cmdname> command to find out which usage domain is configured for that <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> system:</p>
<screen>$ lszcrypt -b

<ph rev="i1v2">ap_domain=0x1a
ap_max_domain_id=0x54</ph>
ap_interrupts are enabled
config_time=30 (seconds)
poll_thread is disabled
poll_timeout=250000 (nanoseconds)</screen>
   </section>
<section id="l31xce00_controdom">       <title>Control domains</title>
     <p>A logical partition's <term>control domains</term> are those cryptographic domains for which
remote secure administration functions can be established and administered from this logical
partition.</p>
     <p>This logical partition's control domains must include its usage domains. So for each index
that is selected in the <term>Usage domain index</term> list, you must select the same index in the
<term>Control domain index</term> list.</p>       <p>But a logical partition's control domains can also include the control domains of other
logical partitions. Assigning multiple logical partitions' control domains as control domains of a
single logical partition allows using the partition to  perform administrative functions from the
TKE .</p>       <p>If you are using the Integrated Cryptographic Service Facility (ICSF) <ph rev="i2">from
z/OS</ph>, select at least one control domain with its matching usage domain. Refer to the ICSF
documentation for information about ICSF basic operations.</p>
     <p rev="i2">If you are using a Trusted Key Entry (TKE) workstation to manage cryptographic
keys, you can define your TKE host and the control domains for a logical partition. See <xref
href="lxce_setting_mk.dita#l31xce00_setting_mk"/> for more information.</p>
   </section>
<section><title>Control domain exposure</title><indexterm>TKE
workstation</indexterm><indexterm>Trusted Key Entry workstation</indexterm><p>For configuration and
management purposes the TKE needs to know which control domains are configured on the system.
</p><p>In <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/>, use a <codeph>sysfs</codeph>
attribute called <codeph>ap_control_domain_mask</codeph> in <filepath>/sys/bus/ap/</filepath> to
display the configured control domains. This information is set automatically from the device
driver.</p><p>The attribute <codeph>ap_control_domain_mask</codeph> is read-only and contains a
32-byte field in hexadecimal notation, representing the installed control domain facilities. Each
bit position represents a dedicated control domain. Thus, a maximum number of 256 domains could be
addressed.</p></section>
<example><b>Example:</b><lines>cat /sys/bus/ap/ap_control_domain_mask
0x0004000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000</lines></example>
<section><dl rev="i1v2">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Byte</dthd>
<ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>1</dt>
<dd>domain 0-7</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>domain 8-15</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>...</dt>
<dd>...</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>       <p>In this example, the control domain 13 was configured.</p>     </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000004943?>
