<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN"
 "ibm-task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<task id="l31xce00_installing_hostpart" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Installing the host part of the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"
/></title>
  <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
  <?Pub Caret -1?>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Installing the host part of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/></navtitle>
    <searchtitle>Installing the host part of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>Read the contained information about how to install the host part of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> as a component of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11stack"/>.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>host part <indexterm>installing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> host part
<indexterm>installing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>TKE daemon</indexterm>
        <indexterm>daemon <indexterm>TKE <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"
/></indexterm><indexterm>start</indexterm><indexterm>ep11TKEd</indexterm><indexterm>install</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ep11TKEd daemon <indexterm>TKE <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"
/></indexterm><indexterm>start</indexterm><indexterm>install</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> TKE daemon</indexterm>
        <indexterm>installing <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> host
part</indexterm>
<indexterm>PAM<indexterm>pluggable authentication modules</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>pluggable authentication modules<indexterm>PAM</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>sticky bit</indexterm>
<indexterm>shadow group</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>As a part of the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11stack"/>, you
need to install the host part of the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> on
your <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmz"/>, as shown in <xref
href="lxce_stack.dita#l31xce00_stack/f_ep11_overview"/>. <p>Also, to use the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> functionality, the TKE daemon
(<term>ep11TKEd</term>) must be available and running to perform certain communication tasks. This
communication path is necessary, for example, for the initial key personalization or for key updates
(see also <xref href="lxce_setting_mk.dita#l31xce00_setting_mk"/>).</p></context>
    <steps rev="i1v2">
<step id="ep11step1">
<cmd>Obtain the appropriate <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> software
package for use on <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmz"/> mainframe servers, that contains the
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11feat"/> from the software package selection
page: </cmd>
<info>
<codeblock><xref href="https://www.ibm.com/security/cryptocards/pciecc3/lonzsoftware.shtml" format="shtml" scope="external"/></codeblock>
RPM is the installation package format for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server
distributions. DEB is the package format for the Ubuntu distribution. The names of the packages are
as follows: <ul>
<li><codeph>ep11-host-2.0.0-2.s390x.rpm</codeph> or later is the standard RPM package that provides
libraries (<codeph>libep11.so</codeph>) and tools (for example, the <cmdname>ep11info</cmdname>
tool) to configure and use a <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallpshort"/>.</li>
<li><codeph>libep11_2.0.0-2_s390x.deb</codeph> or later is the equivalent Ubuntu package.</li>
<li><codeph>ep11-host-devel-2.0.0-2.s390x.rpm</codeph> or later is the development RPM package which
is required if you want to develop programs that link to the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> library. </li>
<li><codeph>libep11-dev_2.0.0-2_s390x.deb</codeph> or later is the equivalent Ubuntu package.</li>
</ul><p>To see a complete list of files contained in the packages, you can download the associated
<filepath>RELEASE.txt</filepath> file from the <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/security/cryptocards/pciecc4/lonzsoftware" format="html"
scope="external">software-package selection page</xref>.</p><note>The host part of the <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> is developed and maintained by <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/> and therefore not part of any commercial <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> distribution.</note>
</info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Install the RPM or DEB by issuing one of the following commands:</cmd>
<info>
<codeblock>
rpm -Uvh &lt;rpm_packet>  /* for RPM new installation or updates*/
dpkg -i &lt;deb_packet>   /* for DEB new installation or updates*/</codeblock>
</info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>The <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/atke"/> daemon (<codeph>ep11TKEd</codeph>), which
comes along with the standard RPM or DEB packages obtained in step <xref
href="#l31xce00_installing_hostpart/ep11step1" format="dita"/> is also installed during the
installation. It is required and must be running for handling administrative commands and for
managing communication between the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/atkews"/> and
the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/cexallpshort"/>. </cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq id="hostpart_postreq" rev="i1v2">
<p> Starting with <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11lib"/> version 2.0, the TKE
can use the <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon to authenticate with a <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> user who is member of the <term>ep11tke
group</term> which is defined in <filepath>/etc/group</filepath> of the system. This is the default,
and it is recommended not to change this.</p><p>However, you could disable the authentication in the
<term>ep11TKEd</term> configuration file as described hereafter.</p><p>The <term>ep11TKEd</term>
daemon uses the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> pluggable authentication
modules (PAM) subsystem to authenticate the user. The interaction with PAM can also be configured in
a <term>ep11TKEd</term>-specific PAM configuration file.</p><p>
<b>Software requirements:</b> As of <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
software package 2.0.0, the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> TKE daemon
requires the OpenSSL library version 1.0.x for secure authentication with the TKE. It also requires
the PAM standard modules for the authentication process. Refer to your <keyword
conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> distribution documentation for supported versions
of OpenSSL.</p><p>The <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon uses <cmdname>systemd</cmdname> for daemonizing
and logging. If you do not use <cmdname>systemd</cmdname>, you need to do the daemonizing and
routing of log messages to files yourself. </p><p>Only TKE versions equal or greater than 8.0 are
supported with this version of <term>ep11TKEd</term>. </p><p><b>Security notes:</b> The
<term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon typically runs as the nobody user. For the authentication process,
<term>ep11TKEd</term> needs privileges to access the shadow file. For those cases,
<term>ep11TKEd</term> can be a <cmdname>setGID</cmdname> program which uses the shadow group, or a
<cmdname>setUID to root</cmdname> program to gain access to the file.</p><p>The
<term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon uses these privileges of the shadow group or the read or search
capability only through a small window of a running authentication process. Privileges are
permanently dropped, if authentication is disabled in the configuration file. </p><p>In the host
package installation process, <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> is checked
for its capabilities. If the shadow group is found, then the sticky bit for the shadow group is set.
If the group is not found, the sticky bit for the root user is set.</p><p>If supported by your
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> distribution, <cmdname>AppArmor</cmdname>
rules are installed. If they are not already enforced for the <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon, you can
enforce them manually.</p><p><b>Configuration:</b>
<note>It is recommended to use the default settings. The configuration features described hereafter
may be used in special environments.</note></p><ul>
<li><b><i>Configuration files:</i></b><ul>
<li>
<p>The EP11 TKE daemon can be configured in file <filepath>/etc/ep11/ep11tked.conf</filepath>. </p>
<p>The only allowed option is <cmdname>CipherMode</cmdname>. The two allowed values are <i>AES</i>
and <i>None</i>. <i>AES</i> is the default value.</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><i>AES</i></dt>
<dd>Use the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/linux"/> PAM system to authenticate a
user.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><i>None</i></dt>
<dd>Do not use any authentication.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<note>If possible, <i>AES</i> should always be used!</note>
</li>
<li>The authentication process can be configured in the file
<filepath>/etc/pam.d/ep11tked</filepath>. See the PAM module manuals for help on editing this file.
Be careful when changing this file as it involves the risk of rendering the authentication useless.
<p>The default setting is to allow any user that has a password configured and is member of the
<term>ep11tke group</term> to gain access through the <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><b><i>How to control the daemon:</i></b>
<p>The program can be started manually by executing the file
<filepath>/usr/sbin/ep11TKEd</filepath>.</p><p>This starts <term>ep11TKEd</term> in the running
shell and not as a daemon. Log messages are printed to the console. This is sometimes useful for
troubleshooting, but usually <term>ep11TKEd</term> should be started through
<cmdname>systemd</cmdname>: <screen>systemctl start ep11TKEd</screen></p><p>To automatically start
the daemon during boot use the following command:
<screen>systemctl enable ep11TKEd</screen></p><p>To disable the automatic start use the following
command: <screen>systemctl disable ep11TKEd</screen></p><p>See the <cmdname>systemd</cmdname>
documentation for help with the service manager. When using <cmdname>systemd</cmdname> for
controlling the daemon, log messages are written to the <cmdname>systemd</cmdname> journal. See the
<cmdname>journald</cmdname> manual for more information.</p></li>
</ul><p><b>Restrictions:</b></p>The versions of the <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon delivered with an
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/> host library starting with version 2.0
cannot be used on an <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ibm"/>
<keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/zEnterprise12"/> (zEC12) system. On these zEC12
systems, you must use version 1.x of the <keyword conref="lxce_conref.dita#l31xce00_conref/ep11"/>
package together with the contained <term>ep11TKEd</term> daemon.</postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000000920?>
